New article "Control a website's access to the local network" (#3553)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/web-platform/local-network-access.md

The ability of a website to request this permission from users is restricted to secure contexts.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## How to Enable Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge

Users (website visitors using Microsoft Edge) can enable and manage Local Network Access permissions through the Microsoft Edge browser settings.

To grant or deny a website permission to access your local network:

1. In Microsoft Edge, go to `edge://flags/#local-network-access-check`.

1. In the dropdown list for **Local Network Access Checks**, select **Enabled (Blocking)**.

   Or, select **Enabled**, which will make the website display a warning, rather than blocking the network request.

1. Click the **Restart** button in the lower right.

1. In Microsoft Edge, select **Settings and more** (![Settings and more icon](./local-network-access-images/settings-and-more-icon.png)) > **Settings**.

   The **Settings** page opens.

1. Select **Privacy, search, and services** > **Site permissions** > **All permissions**.

   The **All permissions** page is displayed:

>    ![The All permissions page in Edge Settings](./local-network-access-images/settings-all-permissions.png) 

Reviewer: redo png: scroll up to top of page on right so that the bold heading of page **All permissions** is visible.

not sure i could do this layout

@murphys0709 

* Internal preview: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/web-platform/local-network-access?branch=pr-en-us-3553#how-to-enable-local-network-access-in-microsoft-edge
* External preview: https://github.com/murphys0709/edge-developer/blob/patch-2/microsoft-edge/web-platform/local-network-access.md#how-to-enable-local-network-access-in-microsoft-edge

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## How to Enable Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge

Users (website visitors using Microsoft Edge) can enable and manage Local Network Access permissions through the Microsoft Edge browser settings.

To grant or deny a website permission to access your local network:

1. In Microsoft Edge, go to `edge://flags/#local-network-access-check`.

1. In the dropdown list for **Local Network Access Checks**, select **Enabled (Blocking)**.

   Or, select **Enabled**, which will make the website display a warning, rather than blocking the network request.

1. Click the **Restart** button in the lower right.

1. In Microsoft Edge, select **Settings and more** (![Settings and more icon](./local-network-access-images/settings-and-more-icon.png)) > **Settings**.

   The **Settings** page opens.

1. Select **Privacy, search, and services** > **Site permissions** > **All permissions**.

   The **All permissions** page is displayed:

   ![The All permissions page in Edge Settings](./local-network-access-images/settings-all-permissions.png) 

>    The websites that are listed are websites that requested access to your local network, such as by a dialog requesting permission.

Reviewer: * Internal preview: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/web-platform/local-network-access?branch=pr-en-us-3553#how-to-enable-local-network-access-in-microsoft-edge
* External preview: https://github.com/murphys0709/edge-developer/blob/patch-2/microsoft-edge/web-platform/local-network-access.md#how-to-enable-local-network-access-in-microsoft-edge

1. In Microsoft Edge, select **Settings and more** (![Settings and more icon](./local-network-access-images/settings-and-more-icon.png)) > **Settings**.

   The **Settings** page opens.

1. Select **Privacy, search, and services** > **Site permissions** > **All permissions**.

   The **All permissions** page is displayed:

   ![The All permissions page in Edge Settings](./local-network-access-images/settings-all-permissions.png) 

1. Scroll down to the **Local network access** section, and then click it:

   ![The Local Network Access section](./local-network-access-images/local-network-access-section.png)

   The **Local network access** page is displayed, and the Address bar shows `edge://settings/privacy/sitePermissions/allSitePermissions/localNetworkAccess`:

   ![Settings for the Local Network Access website permission](./local-network-access-images/settings-for-local-network-access.png)

1. Turn on the **Ask before accessing (recommended)** toggle.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Configuring policies

Enterprise administrators can configure access on a per-site basis, by using the following policies:

> * [LocalNetworkAccessAllowedForUrls](/deployedge/microsoft-edge-browser-policies/localnetworkaccessallowedforurls)

Reviewer: Update the two Policies Ref urls, to:
https://learn.microsoft.com/deployedge/microsoft-edge-browser-policies/localnetworkaccessallowedforurls
http://learn.microsoft.com/deployedge/microsoft-edge-browser-policies/localnetworkaccessblockedforurls

@murphys0709

---
title: Controlling Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge
description: Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge enables users to grant or deny sites' access to your local network.  # key words before col 158
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 08/18/2025
---

> # Controlling Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Controlling access to the local network
```

> <!-- todo: improve "description:" above, after clarify intro -->

Reviewer: improve "description:" above, after clarify intro section

> Use the Local Network Access feature to grant or deny sites' access to your<!-- todo: who is "your"?  the (end-)user's? --> local network.

Reviewer: who is "your"? the end-user?
maybe begin article:
As an end-user, you can use the Local Network Access feature to grant or deny a website access to your local network.  This requires your admin to set policies, below.

<!-- todo:
As an end-user, you can use the Local Network Access feature to grant or deny a website access to your local network.

state the audience; clarify the audience and scenario.  Admins?  Devs?  End-users?

> what admin must configure the policies, for this to work?

Reviewer: what admin must configure the policies, for this to work, so that the end-user is able to control L.N.A.?
* `LocalNetworkAccessAllowedForUrls`
* `LocalNetworkAccessBlockedForUrls`

* `LocalNetworkAccessAllowedForUrls`
* `LocalNetworkAccessBlockedForUrls`
-->

This feature delivers secure, privacy-respecting browsing experiences, while maintaining compatibility with modern web standards.

> This feature is introduced in Microsoft Edge 140.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature requires Microsoft Edge 140 or later.
```

Reviewer: ```
These policies are supported in Microsoft Edge 140 or later.
```

> <!-- todo:

Reviewer: add a link

The ability to request this permission is restricted to secure contexts.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## How to Enable Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge

Users<!-- todo: which type of users, in which scenario?  network admins?  devs?  end-users? --> can enable and manage Local Network Access permissions through the browser settings:

<!-- todo: when steps are accurate, maybe condense: select x > y > z. -->

1. In Microsoft Edge, select **Settings and more** (...) > **Settings**.

   The **Settings** page opens.

1. Select **Privacy, search, and services**.

   The **Privacy, search, and services** page is displayed.

1. Select **Site permissions**.

   The **Site permissions** page is displayed.

1. Select **All sites**.

   The **All sites** page is displayed:

   ![The All sites page in Edge Settings](./local-network-access-images/settings-all-sites.png) 

   The Address bar shows `edge://settings/privacy/sitePermissions/allSitePermissions/localNetworkAccess`.<!-- todo: in some cases, might not end up there.  can comment-out, but keep this special url, for Maint -->

> 1. For a listed site requests access to your local network, turn on the **[todo]** toggle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For a listed site that requests access to your local network, turn on the **[todo]** toggle:
```

>    ![Settings for a selected site](./local-network-access-images/settings-for-a-site.png)<!-- todo: improve png, this is Edge 139 not 140 -->

Reviewer: improve png to show the toggle
this png is Edge 139 not 140, b/c my 140 lists no sites

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Configuring policies
<!-- todo:

> does the article's audience change from end-users to admins, here?

Reviewer: who configured the policies?  only an Admin can?  same person as the rest of the article speaks to?  end-users?

in each h2 section that has action steps, state the audience
-->

Enterprise administrators can configure access by using the following policies:
* `LocalNetworkAccessAllowedForUrls`
* `LocalNetworkAccessBlockedForUrls`

> These policies are supported in Edge 140+.<!-- todo: omit version discussion here?  try to put "140" only at top of article & clearly indicate there that it applies to entire article -->

Reviewer: ```
These policies are supported in Microsoft Edge 140 or later.<!-- todo: omit 
version discussion here?  try to put "140" only at top of article & clearly indicate 
there that it applies to entire article -->
```

---
title: Introducing Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge
description: Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge enables users to grant or deny sites' access to your local network.  # key words before col 158
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 08/18/2025
---

# Introducing Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge
<!-- todo:

> is the audience Dev, or end-users?  present repo is for Dev, not end-users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is the audience Admin, Dev, or end-users?  present repo is for Dev, not end-users
```

One of the latest enhancements in Edge version 140+ is support for **Local Network Access**, a feature that enables users to grant or deny sites' access to your local network.

<!-- todo: add links
See also:
* []()
-->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## What is Local Network Access?

Local Network Access is a feature in Microsoft Edge that restricts websites' ability to send requests to servers on a user's local network.  This feature will display a prompt to users, requiring them to grant or deny the site permission before these requests can be made.

The ability to request this permission is restricted to secure contexts.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## How to Enable Local Network Access in Microsoft Edge

Starting with Edge 140, users can enable and manage Local Network Access permissions through the browser settings:

1. Open Microsoft Edge.

1. Navigate to `edge://settings/privacy/sitePermissions/allSitePermissions/localNetworkAccess`.

> 1. Toggle the permission settings for sites that request access to your local network.

Reviewer: where is the desired ui (toggle), how to nav to it?  In screenshot above, click which?
* All sites
* Recent activity
* All permissions - many options

<img width="835" height="877" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d2a74f23-204d-4427-af04-2af9afec4cfd" />

@murphys0709

> 1. Toggle the permission settings for sites that request access to your local network.

Reviewer: GUI screen most similar to path:
edge://settings/privacy/sitePermissions/allSitePermissions/localNetworkAccess
is empty:
<img width="865" height="257" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/227f45c9-eda0-44fb-9ba0-3026835dca29" />
